---
id: C0nEW2XLVSdb5B4ExbNST
title: Build Automation
desc: ''
updated: 1642741330929
created: 1632726637625
---

## Summary

The weekly build processes are partially automated through Github Actions.

## Releases

1. Early Seed Release - internal preview build available for Environmentalists. Not published to any marketplaces.
1. General Release - general availability of Dendron to all users in the VS Code and Open VSX Marketplaces as [dendron](https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=dendron.dendron).
1. Nightly Development Release - builds nightly for development purposes. Available in the marketplaces as [nightly](https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=dendron.nightly).

## Pipelines for Each Release Type

### Pipelines for General Release

- [Create Release Branch](https://github.com/dendronhq/dendron/actions/workflows/create-release-branch.yml) - snaps a release branch off of master with a name formatted like `release/0.78.0`. This runs on a weekly cadence. This branch becomes what we base the release image off of.
- [Create Release Image](https://github.com/dendronhq/dendron/actions/workflows/create-release-image.yml) - This pipeline will generate a .vsix file whenever a release branch. The .vsix files generated by this pipeline are what we use for both the early seed and GA releases. 

### Nightly Development Release

This procedure will create a .vsix off of the code in master branch at 00:00 PST (midnight) Tuesday - Saturday. This .vsix will automatically get published to the VS Code and Open VSX Marketplaces under the [nightly](https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=dendron.nightly) version of the extension.

This build is intended for development purposes - you can easily setup this image on your secondary development environment (for example, you can set up VS Codium to use the nightly build of Dendron) so that you can test the current build of master without having to generate a .vsix yourself.

The pipeline that performs this action is called [Publish Extension - Nightly](https://github.com/dendronhq/dendron/actions/workflows/publish-extension-nightly.yml)

## Github Actions Environments and Permissions

Certain actions within the pipelines requires permissions and logins - for example: publishing the extension to a marketplace, publishing packages to NPM, and accessing certain service secrets such as oauth and Sentry uploads.  There are two [environments](https://docs.github.com/en/actions/deployment/environments) that our Github Actions are deployed to:

### plugin-production

This environment has access to all secrets as well as publishing tokens for NPM, VS Code Marketplace, and Open VSX Marketplace. This environment is for **production** only and can possibly create production issues if used incorrectly. This environment is restricted to the `master` and `release/*` branches only.

### plugin-development

This environment has access to service secrets, such as Google OAuth and Sentry. This environment **cannot** deploy to NPM or a marketplace. This environment is generally safe for development purposes.

### Development Notes

To specify an environment for a workflow, specify the environment in the YAML config as follows and refer to an existing pipeline as an example:

```yml
jobs:
  build:
    environment: plugin-production
```
[^1]

[^1]: https://github.com/dendronhq/dendron/blob/a5078935085194ef70b45b08491e3a5dbcc7eb9a/.github/workflows/publish-extension-nightly.yml#L14
